##Pandemic: A peptide symphony in A Major.##

Pandemic Peptide Symphony In A Major is a composition produced from the cDNA sequence for covid-19 and was created as a submission for a November computer music challenge. Each peptide in the sequence determines a melody by sending each amino acid to a note in a 20 tone system. Acids are ordered by their abundance across all peptides and similarly, the intervals are ordered by their abundance wrt harmonics on a string. The most common acid then maps to the tonic tone, the second most to the 5th (closest approximation in a 20 tone system), etc...

Since the codons carry more information than simply which amino acid they code for (a triple of bases), this additional information is used to determine additional qualities for a given note. The 2nd base determines the "epoch" or the time allotted for a given note to express, while the 3rd base determines how long the note expresses. For instance, the codons CGG and AGA both code for the acid Arginine. The epoch value "G" determines a half note worth of space for the note to express. In the CGG case, that note expresses for the full time. In the AGA case, "A" corresponds to an eighth note and so the note expresses for the duration of an eighth note and then is followed by a dotted quarter note rest. If the 3rd pair corresponds to a longer duration than the epoch, the time is truncated down to match the epoch's duration. Presently, the base type to duration mapping is arbitrary.

Once determined, the sounds are compiled along with a few aesthetic choices such as octave, long tones, volume, panning, et cetera.

I would like to thank Ken Prokuski and Ed Angel for their camaraderie and support in making this project possible.